2nd Interview with Bernard - TravelClick



Both - personalisation changed post COVID - use resources at the right place -> putting op notes old school , no more

hotel , wait to remind to adopt tech , data is there , how to use data to reach out , help the staff , ecommerce , how to do upsell / cross sell.

Hotelier always behind in tech , airlines always faster , a lot of hotels don't want change

GMs understanding , adopting of tech as a cost , very hard for owners "I pay pms for few months, do not do anything for me , xyz offer cheaper & do more.”

Educating owners investing 5000 give you 100k. Understanding for independant owners

Think why Big brands invested multimillion dollar in tech? - think that way. adopting changes & willing to invest.

Analogy : “if you a grab driver , using Proton Saga , only cheap rides , invest more then can get 7-seater ride

Currently hard , the moment you justify the business case

Especially if you're new in market , they engage you to be tailored, big players already have solid business case they use to pitch

Give the alignment on numbers to be fair , need to have a template

99% of the hotel , the main pain is paying the OTA , if I could switch acquisition from OTA to your website say 1% -> 3000 saving per month.

Join more of those forum ITP Asia , a lot more AI chatbot

start to partners with some university -> hospitality , poli-techniques -> lecture



-> Now ppl use AI -> don't even go to OTA

-> GEO -> mainly for AI , generative engine optimization - make FAQ be user friendly for AI search, every web dev is focusing in GEO

SEO -> optimize search

Not priority (referring to Question 3: leakage from unattended inquiry and whether GMs is willing to pay to solve it), Priority is money generating , operating efficiency

"Do you get this kind of inquiry, how do you display"

"wellness , gym , spa , nutrition" -> not optimise

Who are you selling to - FAQ - family for resort -> impacting conversion

simple research -> go to website & see how they're selling , go inside as if you're interested in booking ->  if booking engine & website is well you you can't do. know how good the property do

ask GMs "what is your dream, that you want to do with tech, that you can't do





Conclusion: Groundwork - deck to trigger that conversation - a lot are willing

Bernard wants his intention to consult , need to set in deck / proposal -> get his idea on how he's willing to get involved.

He mentioned some GMs are tech savvy & will drill down quite deep, need to be prepared at least need to know the numbers



Meeting notes - 14/1/2025 (10:30 am)

Based in SG. Worked in hospitality all his life. Background in operations - front office, housekeeping, very passionate about hospitality. Previously with Opera (Oracle) for 2 years. Understand PMS system very well. Now in Sales and Catering system. Work as a implementation consultant with TravelClick a US GDS.

Hotels wanting to sell rooms uses 3 channels: 1. OTA; 2. Booking engine (typically internal website); 3. Global Distribution System (GDS).

GDS use by airlines to find a flight, room, car.

Amadeus acquired TravelClick in 2019 to complete the full stack.

Air Asia uses Navita by Amadeus to suggest addons such as Nasi Lemak

GDS also used by airport operations e.g KLIA have kiosk for autocheckin, conveyor luggage, scanning of face. Enables traveller after booking flight to immediately book rooms (Travel Click).

Goal is end-to-end from airport to hotel w/o taking out passport. Example use of online key system by Marriott Bonvoy. Involve a lot of regulations and worked out with Singapore Tourism Board.

Now expanding to a Travellers ID which is related to data privacy. Eg. for JW Marriott the traveller experience from first touch, emails, notifications, journey until checkout (his role is more towards hotel focus)

His specialist is more towards: reservation solution, CRM, CMS.

He is a presales specialist. The go-to for interview with hotel GMs understanding pain points, giving consultation then preparing proposal, pricing from custom tailor made solutions.

On Digital Driveway:

Looking at GM bottom line

What makes a hotel successful 20-30 years ago - remarkable service

now approach changed

to know what you want, can spam with related promos

last year's survey: out of 5-6k hoteliers more than 60% said don't mind being bombarded by related promos

"What pillow do you like" "Everytime you book, you come with family, have 2 kids, bring parents, prefer corner room, facing win tower"

"You used to stay for 10 nights, come back to stay for 10 nights, we'll give you 30% off."

Meeting ended on a short notice as he have another call at 11am.

To send another invite agreed for same time this Friday.