Consultant is consulting a client to Launching airbnb for family - Airbnb concept very family orientated - kids swimming pool



Launched it las month - 70% occupancy - 4 acres land at Bukit Hitam JB, looking at launching 12 units - boutique resort concept - 12 minutes of Legoland



They contacted to be as a consultant



Not looking for big players-like



Maybe 2 units segregate for pet zones



1. Assuming bring in US brand, support US partners - some hotels must use Opera - all the information is gathered and shared with intelligence in the US.



If Malaysian brand, support Malaysia - use Malaysian PMS system

POS system - need to use one endorsed by Kastam



Multibillion dollar contract - Opera system for Hyatt - most of the system is only used for room control & check-in system - who is actually using it?



Operation most of the time is typically,



It's not very useful, no ROI - just simplify the system - just simply say lets use Opera - idiot-proof system



SHould be given option for private - due to info leakage (PDPA) - kes mahkamah personal info leakage - need data protected to a very high level



Looking for something more simpliied but at a reasonable costs



Looks at hotel in the next 10 years, hotels are going to suffer losses



Shopping mall concept is dying off - how to address this in the next 10 years - how can next AI come in to address hospitality needs - walking to Pavillion check-in, the information just simply come in in just a click of a button

- too many platforms - one-stop - within 1-2 minutes can book a room and checkin



Owners involved - subjective topic - to block away owners from interfering - how can we have a system that gives owners 100% responsibility - customer checkin bilik, money not entering bank

Ordering drink - staff give scan QR pay - employee QR instead of company QR, enter personal acc of bangla worker



"Boss sudah bayar, okay boss thank you, have a nice day" - not yet publisized, Bank Negara will be pressured



Investment fraud cases - Zouk, Jalan Ampang on Friday night generate RM350k (one night), say if 2% masuk staff pocket - cannot monitor if 300 employees. Supplier bawa unaudited stock, bartender, floor staff - finance & management cannot track - go in operation time - masuk store do audit

Hentam staff, smua orang x datang kerja sudah.



The AI mechanism should be interrelated to training - ask question to AI - AI address the problem - guest do not want to pay the deposit - AI assisting the counter - part of training - training cost in 10 years comes in hundreds of thousands.

Nobody want to do training - dont want to sit in the classroom 4hrs one day - want everything give to them - a click of the button go into a communication



During the check-in -> AI greet -> tell the history of the customer

Prevent referral -> a lot of jumps - 5 ppl spoke to - endup xde dewan - new generation - yesx3 - product is not available - Integrated Marketing Communication (iMAC) - KYC - typically have a fixed set of preference - AI should help in integration of communication - help operations bring up the standard of SOPs



None of them send me message "Happy Birthday" - LHDN very effective in this.



AI should establish - communication - telling Hilton KL "Hey its Mr. Malik brithday tomorrow, do something..." - give a call - "Can you come to the hotel, we have something for you..."



How can AI help build trust between organization/brand



Points system - point accumulated in membership - how can AI interact with F&B & hotels by create a point system - and at a click can utilise the points - dont want the hassle of isi borang - should be an immediate retention program - the moment step out (check-out) sends a mesage "Hi Mr. Floyd you have ...."



Sleeping properties - hotelier background - found more challenging

Business ethics

Customer (hotelier) culture

Help a lot of people. His ex boss is Tun Daim & Tun Mahathir

Mentioned it was hard during his early days. Explained to him we're currently in that hard phase he was in during his early days.

A. Bleeding - 30 years ago: Had a lot of influence by US brand. He was involved with Hyatt for 18 years. His involvement in preopening for Hyatt Saujana, JB, Kota Bahru, Vancouver etc. Currently most of hotels in Malaysia already running automated systems.

Office is based in Singapore.

Culture issue. Some hotels have better "Ferrari" system but utilisation is only 5%. Most multibillion projects not from hotel but from F&B. F&B never dies, demand will always be there even in 100 years to come. Just need to be creative. Opera system from Oracle is $100k/yr agreement.

He is involved in the Paya Indah Wetlands project nearby Putrajaya. Zoo Negara was supposd to move there but face resistance from Ampang rep due to his pocket money dependancy. Gamuda now controls it (Gamuda Cove) - controlled by Tun M.

GDV of Saujana Hotel is RM12B

During his chat with GM they are looking for AI.

Focus on change management - turnkey project

AI enhance productivity

Fundamental of hospitality is customer service

Issue is Marketing - Gordan Ramsay place in Sunway was said to be empty - he went and asked for a menu unavailable due to his wife not eating beef. Was turn off with when told angrily by the operators that that is what is only available. He mentioned if somebody want to eat chop vegetables, then the chef should do so - even if not a part of the menu - prioritise customer satisfaction - custom made menu according to customer

"Interactive session is not there" - looking for this in AI - Interactive AI tool that work with Malaysia.

Opera already cover front office for hotels, zero at the moment for F&B.

When checking why no pickups for F&B, lacking of promotion - when mentioned social media upon checking - low engagement

When check-in, don't know hotel ada apa.

Even car park have issue with information - sometime even need ask bangla (security) - end up sesat - very bad experience.

Good experience = The minute you enter hotel, guided on how to park, where the lobby is.

Scheduled for next session with Floyd next Mon/Tue same time -> schedule for longer session.

Hotels nowadays tend to lose business due to low manpower - high operating cost. People nowadays do not complain, they just don't come anymore.

The key is how to ensure a Malaysian hospitality AI - even hotels overseas in developed countries prefer Malaysian due to humility.

Bottlenecks - work culture - nowadays customer is number 4 for international brands (in Malaysia), ranking according to Floyd:

Owner (management suck up to owners)

Management

Employees

Customers

Owners are not to interfere with operations of hotels. Example is the use of YTL engine to manage JW Marriott hotel, Grand Millennium is own Hong Leong's Quek family, Grand Hyatt is owned by kerabat Brunei.

AI needs to reform, restructure, rebrand the process, override interference.

When staff comes in morning. Who monitors staff? Manager too busy and have no time to make sure the quality of service (staff task checklist)

To send him the calendar invite for next session via mobile & LinkedIn. Meeting ended.